you know moving right along because i'm
a little behind schedule at the moment
our net we have another talk coming up
um another person uh who has been a
close collaborator julia very recently
um the wonderful joey holder
and um
joey uh it's just so wonderful it's so
amazing and i love the projects that you
guys have been working on together the
shows that you've done which you know
we'll hear about in just a few minutes
and you know the current spur residency
that you're building together that has
just offered such an unbelievable
opportunity to young artists
to experiment with with new media
to give a little background joey's work
raises philosophical questions of our
universe and things yet unknown
regarding the future of science medicine
biology and human machine interactions
working with scientific and technical
experts she makes immersive multimedia
installations that explore the limits of
the human and how we experience
non-human natural and technological
forms mixing elements of biology
nanotechnology and natural history
against computer program interfaces
screen savers and measuring devices she
suggests the impermanence and
interchangeability of these apparently
contrasting and oppositional worlds
everything is a mutant and a hybrid oh
that's that's such a cool sentiment
connecting forms which have emerged
through our human taste culture and
industrial processes she investigates
complex systems that dissolve notions of
the natural and the artificial
gm products virtual biology and aquatic
creatures are incorporated into an
extended web challenging our perception
of evolution adaptation and change
um joey's had so many incredible solo
shows most recently the abyssal seeker
show which was at 17 gallery sameel
paris at spring health aquatic center in
london with julia you were really
closely involved in um and so many more
uh we're gonna hear all about it in just
a moment and so with that i'm gonna
switch it over to joey
hello my name is joey holder and i'm an
artist
a producer and mentor and educator i'm
based in nottingham in the uk
thank you so much for inviting me to do
the talk um
yeah it's an amazing
lineup and yeah i'm really happy to be
part of it
um so i'm going to talk about a few
different projects that i've been doing
over recent years
and two so i'm going to be playing a
video throughout the talk and that
contains research images
and different screen grabs of websites
that i've made films
and found images all kind of mixed
together and
i like to show my work in this kind of
continual flow because i see my work as
this kind of like
um even even the research and kind of
found images as part of the process and
part of the work and part of this kind
of like constructing this uh this kind
of world which doesn't just exist um as
artworks inside galleries it's very much
like about how it spills out and kind of
becomes like a
big kind of constellatory network if you
like and that's that's for me where the
work presides not in not in queen of
like separate sort of elements it's like
how it kind of like connects some layers
and and flows together across like
multi-faceted like platforms and and
multi-dimensional um
uh in multi-dimensional ways
um so
and
yeah i guess like the digital realm is
very much changed the way that i think
about work um
displayed on the screen is like various
different
um
websites that i've created and various
different like tumblr sites and image
blogs i have probably over
60 or so of these different sites and
the the internet is obviously like
completely
saturated and by information and imagery
and things that have been made and it's
almost like
i
use that material as an artist um as my
kind of like raw material i feel like i
don't need to make anything in the world
anymore um because it feels like yeah
everything has been made and it's almost
like
i'm just using
that material um and i feel like i'm
just like just a kind of like another
interface or filter and of that material
and kind of reconstituting it re
recomposing it
collaging with stuff together and not
actually yeah not actually
claiming that i'm kind of like making
anything new
so i guess like within my work i'm
dealing with
nature and the world at large i mean i
see nature as
being pretty much everything in the
world so humans and what we make
included within that as well as
all of the animal and plant species and
how we're kind of interconnected into
that
and within my work i often depict
um different creatures often choosing
quite weird and wonderful creatures
aquatic creatures insects
and
depicts them alongside
our
human
kind of understanding of those creatures
so often
i will depict
different
frames of of references like like
different knowledge systems that we use
to try to understand these creatures
so for example i will often use
um scientific means of explaining these
creatures so i'll
kind of show these natural forms
alongside scientific diagrams mappings
symbols um
yeah different kind of like different
kind of systems and i really want to
kind of like reflect on how
the systems and the languages and the
the the things that we kind of create as
humans are quite limiting in in
understanding the the world that we live
in and
so often yeah i'll mix elements of
biology
nanotechnology natural history against
like computer interfaces
screen savers measuring devices and
i guess like it's to suggest the kind of
impermanence and interchangeability of
these apparently kind of contrasting and
oppositional worlds
and
i want to
describe the world and because i think
the world is
a constantly kind of like
mutating and transforming um
place it's not you know it's not static
um
and i mean often
and i think often within
very much the the modern project at the
moment it seems as if everything is
becoming like a branch of technology and
computer science and even life itself we
are attempting to
um to datify and to categorize in this
way and i think that this is extremely
dangerous way a limited way to look at
life and it's impossible for us to be
able to to kind of like capture it
with this project and so
a lot of my work yeah kind of like
grapples with this
um
yeah so i guess like i see each project
and each artwork very much as creating
like
fictional or maybe
faction um
based on fact as well kind of creating
worlds and kind of constructive
environments that respond very much to
contemporary real world events in the
world around us
and each of my artworks
i
kind of like consider like a set if you
like with different filmic and narrative
and art architectural
um
visuals and sound elements and and each
each of those kind of like constructions
is is made like uniquely for the kind of
conceptual underpinning of the project
and i've worked with lots of different
researchers and practitioners in my work
as well like um through conversations
and through workshopping together
and through creating work together and
so not just artists i've worked with
computational geneticists i've worked
with
marine biologists behavioral
psychologists
investigative journalists and
i've worked across like different themes
including future farming synthetic
biology and deep sea ecosystems so
like a couple of projects then that i'm
going to talk about um offix was a
project that i did in 2016 where i
collaborated with two scientists one was
a computational biologist and the other
was a marine biologist looking at deep
sea creatures
and
for this project i was
looking at the datification of life
itself and particularly like biological
genetic data
and very much these days um
it's almost as if like biologists think
of
life as being able to be
something that can be programmed like a
computer i mean it's almost like dna
code is thought about like computational
code um
in the way that they
um
talk about like how it can be um
manipulated in different parts of the
code
and cut out and then put into different
things like reprogram organisms
and
again like i think that it's very
problematic and limiting to think about
life in this kind of like limiting way
and it was really interesting doing
these they're doing these projects and
having these conversations with these
scientists because it actually made me
realize
that there's so much again like there's
so much that we don't know about life
and about the world and one of the
things that i learned
about
genetic
dna
is that scientists only know
i think it's less than 3
of what dna codes for so the other 97
they haven't got a clue
and
like when you
um start researching um these kind of
like different
big biotech companies
medical kind of like
organizations
it seems like their rhetoric is very
much about like what they what they can
do and like these kind of like big
scientific breakthroughs that they've
made and really focusing on that rather
than
focusing actually like that still it was
relevant you know there's relatively a
lot of stuff like that that isn't known
and they still don't know
um
and
excuse me
so for this project i created like a
sci-fi kind of like scene of a
futuristic medical room
and the audience were at the very center
if you like um and they and there was
life-size models of high-tech medical
imaging equipment including like an mri
scanner crm x-ray machine
and
genetic and genetic sequencing machines
and i guess it like really explores the
promise of a network world and connected
genetic data directly and fluidly to
biomedical equipment in order to carry
out medical procedures by computers
and i imagined this this medical room to
completely be completely automized and
so it was being fed information from a
diverse sort of genetic data bank which
was sampling different specimens from
humans to plants to animals in the kind
of like furthest regions of the natural
world
and it was a place where i imagined
synthetic biology had been fully
realized and applied to human to human
health and evolution
and increase our life expectancy
and improve our yeah our biology itself
and
yeah and kind of like think about this
project as like life being kind of like
something that can be manipulated and
computer programmed
um and
yeah this was very much a reflection on
real world events of course there are
things like the human genome project
which aims to
collect like as much genetic data
from different human beings as possible
and including other creatures there's
the earth bank of codes and i think it's
called which is another project which
aims to um yeah collect data and genetic
mapping and of all the different like
species on earth
um i mean again like there's there's so
many species on earth that are
completely beyond our reach and like
that we haven't discovered the deep sea
for example is this hugely like
unexplored territory where we know very
little about the life forms that exist
there so um
again like these these projects seem
like extremely
um
yeah ambitious in in like what they what
they're kind of like trying to do and
maybe like missing missing the point
like all together that life isn't sort
of meant to be um
you know mapped in in this kind of way
[Music]
[Applause]
so
[Music]
[Applause]
so
[Music]
[Applause]
so what was just on the screen was a
clip from a film that i made um
i was asked to make a film responding to
um
conspiracy theory actually it was back
in 2017 i think it was and it was a very
strange time trump had just got into
power brexit had happened in the uk and
you know it was a big kind of like
political uproar and quite like a
dramatic
um yeah changing like political
landscape um
and like that was really being reflected
um you know across the media across
social networks and there was this
this is when the start of
terms like echo filter bubbles and echo
chambers we were coming about like
talking about social media is this idea
that
your
um your world view was being
reflected back at you through social
media platforms so you was often in this
kind of um you're often in this kind of
like bubble um of your own kind of
belief systems and that being
um yeah very much uh
uh reflected back and and added to
and
um so i started to get very concerned at
this kind of
premise and like the the kind of like
online arguments that were going on and
this kind of like binary
kind of politics and thinking um
and so i
yeah created this um this film to kind
of like reflect on that um
and
also like following this uh this project
i um started up a new large-scale
project which was called edcredo the
deep belief network
and that was really about
um
thinking about how we can be manipulated
online and our whole world view can be
manipulated and changed and our very
behavior can be um yet manipulated
through like algorithmic processes and
manipulation
and control
and so i made a project that was all
about um as i say like the construction
of belief um in online networks
um and it had like a large scale um
installation
and
and again like i kind of created this
speculative um company um as well which
was kind of like meant to reflect on um
some of the the operations that are
happening in the world so this you know
like there's obviously lots of companies
that exist like cambridge analytica for
example that harvest our data when we
are using our phones when we're online
on our computers and use that data to
kind of manipulate our your actions our
behavior
and to get us to you know buy certain
things or to believe in certain things
or to vote even in a certain way
and yeah i mean i guess like the very
advent of advent of digital media has
shown that the world is made up of this
kind of mass of circulating
disjointed and kind of contradictory a
lot of the time information and
yeah this
communications network can be
manipulated um by by online companies
groups and individuals which can give
rise to new narratives and even new
political ideologies or conspiracy
conspiracy tutorials like theories as
well
and so
i
made this project that yeah took the
form of this kind of like speculative
association like a corporation um
that i created where
ideologies could be
disseminated and
used to kind of like manipulate people
and i was blending conspiracy theories
sci-fi sci-fi
corporate and religious belief systems
like in sort of woven we wove them all
together in this work so i had like a
series of cgi talking heads um which
were different political figures like
trump putin
um
various different aliens at kanye west
in there
um
and they were all sort of talking over
each other
and
talking about things that they had that
they had like kind of like said in real
life and there was this um
i guess like there was this kind of like
hellscape and noise like created because
they was all talking over each other and
these kind of like wanting to kind of
like refresh reflect on these like
different sort of like narratives and
fragments of um stories that were kind
of like fed over the internet and like
how we um yeah how we can like be
um
how we can be shaped by those stories
and narratives
um and i wanted yeah the work to kind of
operate by holding up i guess multiple
different viewpoints and mirrors and
reflecting different cultural sets of
belief systems
and
yeah to question like the very
foundations of what constitutes our
worldview
and
yeah i mean as we've seen in recent
years
um
popular opinion and what does
um sway us into
believing certain things certain
narratives may not be grounded on
certain truths but based upon i guess
like the success of ideas and beliefs
across digital networks
um
and this
yeah so you know information can be
replicated and spread very easily now
across like across the internet and um
yeah it might not be based on like the
the truth of that story but how how well
um
it you know it kind of like is received
and and how many people kind of like
spread it and how it's and how it
connects the dots with other with other
narratives
the search for
the water of life the alchemists have
was as great as for the thing that the
transmute
joey that was such an amazing
presentation um you know it was so cool
to see some of your works and see clips
from different videos ones that i've you
know never seen before there was that
one with um the black and white grid and
the kind of ghostly shapes of the
different creatures that's a new one for
me um you know from this thing so that
was really cool to see
yeah i think that that worked um i think
that was the shark work um it was called
um salaki morpho which is yeah basically
the latin name for sharks um but yeah
that was done back in
2017 so yeah a little bit older now
yeah
cool no um i'm just really you know i
was talking you know we were
pre-chatting before this and i very
selfishly wanted to get the two of you
together um because i was just saying
that your your show at spring health
aquatic center uh sameel perez is easily
one of my top 10 favorite exhibitions of
all time i just thought it was so smart
um so beautiful um and i understand i'm
saying behind the scenes as well i'm
sure you say that to every artist
i certainly don't
but no i also understand that that was
the first time that the two of you had
had worked together and i'd love to just
learn a little bit more about that show
the intention behind it um and how your
collaboration uh you know came about
yeah do you want to talk or shall i talk
julia
uh i mean i could start i mean i
that kind of exhibition came together
really in response to that space
so um
the the site where the installation was
was in a disused swimming pool so like a
leisure center in north london that had
been like abandoned and vacated and sort
of had been i think it had been empty
for like five years by the time we were
there so it was quite like it wasn't
like in bad shape and like really
dilapidated um
and so i kind of had i was given access
to this space and went and saw and like
immediately thought of joey's work um
so we just started the conversation from
there and like figured out how we could
sort of respond to
what this i already had to offer
yeah
but yeah maybe joey you could talk more
about that how it came together yeah i
mean like being offered a space like
that i mean like i think we started from
nothing as well we didn't have um any
like funding in place we just you know
we just kind of like had an idea and
like was really excited about the space
itself um and that you know in that kind
of space is like
a dream to me really it's like a like
yeah like a dishy swimming pool or a
disused mall or you know like something
that's kind of like being dilapidated
and you know like the ceiling was like
starting to leak and stuff like that and
so you could all already imagine like i
don't know like something else like
taking over like you know i guess nature
and inverted commas like taking over the
space again so um so yeah no it was
really exciting to
yeah to
i mean we was just having a pre-chat
before actually as well and saying like
that that space i mean it's almost like
for an artist
it felt like i didn't have to do you
know that much because the architecture
and everything was already like there
it's such an amazing space um and i mean
for me like i i very much respond to
like the architecture and the story of a
space as well and think about the work
as a kind of like an extension of that
and i don't um
i don't really like um the kind of like
classical like white cube gallery space
like either so it's always kind of like
working
yeah against that and kind of like
creating
very immersive
like environments i guess and you know
yeah creating something that you can
really like step into and
yeah be fully kind of like
part of this crazy world or something um
but yeah the work was
centered around
a particular creature like the european
eel um and
i mean yeah i could probably talk too
much about
the european
um and yeah i probably mentioned in my
talk as well there's a pre-recorded talk
so i can't remember how much i went into
it um but yeah it's about the journey of
the european eel and um
that it travels like it's 3 000 miles
across the sea and it's a creature that
nobody um has really witnessed um
it breed and you know like people don't
know very much about its life cycle um
and so
that's something that really interests
me in my work like that
there's you know there's such kind of
like diversity of creatures and uh
animals and plants in the world and um
you know a lot of our
uh
like certain like western scientific
understanding kind of like have us
believe that we know so much about the
world when in fact we still know very
little about it and very little about
the animals and plants and you know in
our kind of knowledge system so
yeah the work was about this kind of
like speculative journey i guess of this
eel like this video installation
i could carry on about the eel but i
probably should
no i actually want i actually wanted to
because i think that you know
like that's it's so fascinating that we
live on a the european eel i mean it's
in a lot of ways it's so mundane and so
commonplace i mean you know especially
in the uk like eel pies are a
traditional food and it's something
that's
lived with for centuries millennia i
don't even know um
and
you know but how do we not know these
things about it you know how how is this
thing that is so commonplace and
seemingly so mundane this animal that is
all around us you know in rivers and
different bodies of water you know how
do we not know how it breathes oh it
just is kind of mind-blowing
yeah
yeah i mean and i think that that you
know it's not just that particular
creature it's so many creatures i mean i
think you know
i mean maybe looking at like the kind of
more micro world as well like we we
don't know i think it's like less than
two percent of like the bacteria that
lives on our own bodies you know there's
there's
so much yeah that we don't know and um
and yeah like you were saying the eel
like i guess we think of as something
that's quite yeah banal and like quite
commonplace it you know it lives i think
in like all over europe um but it is
actually now
considered like very an endangered
species it's on the kind of like
critical list
um and there has been
um a huge effort to try to um save this
um species and because yeah it's kind of
very important to
um obviously the rest of the the foods
ecosystem and so forth um
but yeah it's i mean it but it's and
it's it's a creature that has
like puzzled um
scientists and even philosophers and
things for centuries as well like freud
famous when he was studying medicine
famously um had to dissect
i think like thousands of eels to try to
find their
like sexual organs and find eggs inside
them and he never could do this
aristotle
i think it was aristotle that said that
eels like come from
they come kind of like spontaneously
from the mud they like they they they
they just come alive and they just are
because he couldn't find an answer to
um
yeah again to like how they they bred so
they just kind of like spontaneously
come out came out of the earth and came
out of mud so
yeah i mean i mean i find like that
i don't know like that kind of like
point of where
science stops if you like and like kind
of like those kind of
crazy other
um
well stories or myths or like these kind
of like fill-in kind of things like that
we create as humans when we like you
know can't you know can't find out what
we want to know about something really
kind of intriguing as well um yeah and i
think that that's yeah
kind of what i try to do in my work is
kind of
balance between myth and science or
something
um
yeah actually i've got a book by the
side of me now
oh wow you want to know more about eels
i highly recommend this book
i
[Laughter]
from the eel farm because that's also
like carried through
yeah so um yeah i was quite lucky to be
able to travel
um i went to china i went to china and
um i was actually
i was actually supposed to be in part of
this film festival screening some films
out there and
quite often in china actually work gets
censored um and you can't show it so i
ended up that i couldn't actually show
my work as part of this festival and but
actually it was quite um it worked out
quite well cause i was like okay i'm
gonna have a holiday and i'm gonna go
and see my friend uh in south korea and
so i went there and
um
she asked me yeah she said oh we're
gonna go on this this this trip this day
um
and she didn't tell me where we was
going but we visited um yeah an eel farm
and that's when i like got all of this
footage
of of the eels basically sort of like
really
in this kind of like compact
like vats and they're all kind of like
rivering around each other
um
and
yeah that's that's i guess where i
became like really interested in like
what were these animals like you know
and i i didn't know that this kind of
like industry existed as well where they
were being
um where they were being farmed i mean
they're not bred in captivity because
they can't breathe they haven't even
seen them breed but yeah so they're so
they're caught as they're
as young animals and then they're grown
up in this farm environment where i did
this filming and then
and then yet they're sold as food um and
i mean we think of eels i guess is like
well maybe in england at least where i'm
from
i think of them as quite like a i guess
like quite a cheap food but yeah and in
other places they're quite like a prized
dish yeah so
isn't there like also thinking about
this kind of like economy of this animal
as well is i think it's like the most
trafficked animal in the world which is
um
which is insane yeah because they can
fetch really high prices so people do
catch them illegally and then they're
sold
um illegally
wow that's crazy i mean what a like it's
just so interesting how you know one
small creature can connect to so many
different cultures so many different
histories so many different ways of
moving around the world you know the
whole again the whole festival of worlds
and protocol is about thinking through
different ways of being interconnected
thinking through the things that can
find and
restrict us the things that we don't
know the answers we don't have um and
this you know this eel i didn't mean to
you know bring up so much about this eel
but i think
great metaphor you know for all of this
and such a beautiful case study of how
you know all of this works but i want to
you know switch focus a little bit and
talk some more not about the eels but
about the abyssal seeker project which
is the which is the project that we're
showing at gray area um as part of new
art city uh in new york city as part of
the diorama exhibition um my colleague
is going to drop the link in the chat
for anybody on the live stream right now
and also i dropped some links to the
samalpura show both the version um at
harlem high street at the green health
aquatic center as well as the
downloadable zip file version at
off-site project
which is you know just a little shout
out for them because they're awesome
really great online gallery space run by
elliot burns and peta area like please
check them out the links in the chat but
moving back to um you know this show and
this work abyssal seeker
is a project that has
is so expansive you've had three solo
shows over the summer where different
chapters of the project were told um i
think it's the abyssal zone the benthic
zone
um and there's one more as well um that
the name is escaping me um those are
presented at futura in prague at 17
gallery in london and the third one is
going to be remind me joey uh
um so there's yeah there's there's
already been prague london and um
oh god it's currently in lake slovenia
as well um at the ljubljana biennale and
it will be in sydney as well um next
year for the sydney biennale um but yeah
i basically
split up the project into these
different zones which was meant to
represent different zones of the of the
deep sea um actually and like the open
water as well
um and
yeah so each of the zones like i guess
is
meant to represent like different
um
yeah ecosystems within these different
like places um but the focus is on
yeah this kind of like abyssal
zone which like was actually
it's quite cheesy but it was inspired by
like watching a blue planet episode
actually where there's a
um there's sort of like a lake at the
bottom of the ocean so it looks like a
lake when you when you look at it but
it's just that the water is like a lot
more
saline and salty so it looks like
there's a kind of like lake at the
bottom of the ocean and
like on this particular scene uh
this underwater footage like creatures
like swim in and out of this um
this lake and
they kind of get quite like because it's
quite toxic and they're like they kind
of like get all a bit like screwed up if
they they stay in there too long um but
i kind of thought about this this kind
of place as
a place that's like completely like
beyond our understanding really um i
mean it's a well-known metaphor i guess
that you know we know more about outer
space maybe than we know
then that's what's at the bottom of the
the ocean um and so many of those
creatures you know every time there's
this kind of exploration to the bottom
of the deep sea you know we constantly
find life forms that yeah we've never
seen before and
also life forms that
um
like live and then exist in a completely
different way than we would understand
as well i mean for example like we used
to think that everything needed to
um
live through it like using
photosynthesis and um and to create
energy in that way but there's life
forms at the bottom of the ocean that
process um you know chemicals in a whole
different way anyway i'm going on too
much so the abyssal seeker
project was like focusing like on a
group of animals that lived in the deep
abyssal sea and the the kind of
narrative of the project was that other
beings the other humans and other
species were trying to like get to this
uh to this place at the bottom of the
ocean um
as a kind of way of
escape i guess and thinking about like
how
in our world um on land you know we're
kind of saturated by
surveillance systems and control and
data and everything's kind of like being
um you know we're being mapped and
processed in a way and i thought you
know like if we could
i don't know get to this like place or
not even get to this place or just kind
of like understand this place as like
our world being not that place that can
be like categorized or tracked or
anything else using this place as that
kind of metaphor um that was yeah that
was the kind of idea of the
of the exhibition really so yeah and
it's a kind of
uh like the main the main part of it is
a kind of like cgi film um of this kind
of like abyssal deep sea place with
these creatures kind of moving in and
out of this space
it's a this work so i'm so if
anybody doesn't hasn't realized this
already i'm obsessed with marine biology
i was a little little kid it was my
first dream job um and i was like you
know
only we've done marine biology
yeah i think we've talked about this
like why did we go to study art and
because like
biologists like it makes no sense um but
you know i always try but it's always
something that's really spoken to me
because again it's another metaphor for
ways of thinking through
like you know there you know we have
this whole crazy world and there's parts
of it that we don't even know about that
we've never seen that nobody has seen
that is unknowable um it is not possible
for my body to go to the bottom of the
ocean
for so many reasons
and that really speaks to you know we
need to
how can we make
i hate this word but how can we find
solutions or rather than solutions maybe
positive pathways forward
and make the right choices when we don't
even understand how those choices are
going to impact creatures that we've
never even seen before um and that
is quite profound to me um
and
you know there's so much in this too i
mean just thinking about those creatures
at the bottom of the ocean another
artist who's in the who's in the
festival huntress who'll be performing
on the last day she'll be closing out
the festival
she and i have talked so much about this
because you know in so many way a lot of
the creatures at the bottom of the ocean
like for many people they inspire the
both of us you know as as queer people
in the sense that these are animals that
survive under the most inhospitable
conditions possible um they are in these
dark dank dangerous
highly pressurized highly salient
environments and
in in you know by logic they should not
exist you know we understand you know
the you know the what's it called the
the
thermophilic bacteria and all these kind
of microorganisms that makes sense to me
but when you see like these big
you know uh like the the like the like
wolf eels and these really like bizarre
animals that look like something out of
a sci-fi film you know they shouldn't
it's almost like they shouldn't exist
yet they persist despite it and so for
me that's always been something that has
brought to mind resilience and
persistence despite persecution or
struggle you know there are protocols in
place physical protocols of gravity and
water pressure and you know and saline
and all these other things that um
make it
seem impossible yet despite those
constricting protocols these animals are
thriving in their own in their own world
yeah
and i think that's i guess we only see
it as like constricting because that's
you know our logic and our you know we
only see that like oh my god something
can't survive in that environment
because it's not our environment but
yeah
that kind of gives you the
the possibility like there are loads of
different environments and like like you
say loads of different creatures that
thrive there it's just
we need to get out of our own kind of i
don't know
yeah
he you know yeah absolutely but how do
we do that i don't know
those creepers like
exist in the they've
manifested in those environments like
that's where they live that's
that's their existence they don't know
anything else and they couldn't survive
on our like you know elsewhere
yeah yeah if we brought them up to the
land they couldn't survive here isn't it
as well but yeah but i get like i like
what she was saying about the
you know like the the kind of bringing
like the queer side of things as well
and i think
maybe not only thinking it like about
hostile environments as well but like
thinking about
i mean there's there's been some
there's some you know theory and tax
writtens around this but like about
queer ecology and things like this as
well and the idea that you know nature
nature has always been queer you know
like there is every like possibility and
every um
talking about sexuality as well you know
there are animals that can have both
sexes or that can change sex or
that um
i don't you know like every species of
animals now i think they've proven like
have um you know like um
gay gay gay sex like in every single
species and there is all of these
yeah weird sexual mating practices of
animals and stuff as well so like you
know our very
conservative like limited way to think
about our bodies and sex as well is like
um
you know it can be completely blown
apart when we when we look at like other
other species
absolutely and you know i was just
showing just some clips from
um we took the film piece the 3d
environment and we tried to make it
something immersive that you could move
through it's not as high resolution as
the original because we're working with
web and you know we wanted it to be i
still haven't seen it so i really want
to see it
oh well yeah well you have to check it
out it looks really great um
and you know we took out some of the
creatures and have them moving through
so you can see some of the abyssal
seekers um and you can just be in the
underwater cave environment um just for
just for a moment it's a nice it's a
nice grotto to go and you know spend
some spend some time in
um
oh gosh i just i there's so much i want
to talk to you guys about you know and i
think that you know what i want you
already out of time i don't know we
are out of time but you know there's the
one final thing i wanted to talk to you
both about was the spur project that you
both are working on um which i have just
been
wowed by you guys did an online
exhibition the title is now escaping me
but i'll find it in a second and link it
in in the chat but it was a virtual
exhibition i believe built in a unity
environment um
that was just
so rich it was the kind of art it was
the kind of art exhibition that i dream
of curating it was so immersive and it
involved so many young artists so many
emerging artists so many uh you know
you know young people just really
starting out um and it was really
inspiring to me it's this virtual
exhibition in a fantastic 3d environment
that has these bizarre biological
constructions and artificial
constructions and you know i want to
learn more about you know what spurt is
how you guys came together on it and you
know what your plans are for for the
future to close us out a little bit
yeah so oh god i'm in a car
sorry um so yeah you can you can view it
at it's still online it's spur dot world
and then we just simply called the um
oh my god i've got a tickly throat and
the world's um the exhibition that
happens per world so you can see it
there julia you might have to introduce
it
i mean i think i mean square was joey's
project so it was started basically as a
residency program
um where all of the artists were working
like online on this custom platform
um so i mean you were working with om
social club because basically all of we
wanted all the artists to develop like
avatars so they were like anonymous on
the platform
so in
like a series of workshops and like kind
of um world building training that
happened like within that yeah
and then it basically like it happened
as well because we were you know it
happened at the start of lockdown where
we was thinking oh my god there's this
group of artists that are going to be
graduating from their studies and
they're going to have lost the
opportunity to show work um
in the usual way and
you know us guys have
you know some
some some skills some digital skills so
we'll try to you know we'll try to help
out the best that we can and i mean and
like like julia said like one of the
things that
i guess drove me to like want to do the
project as well is like to think about
maybe like creativity
in a
in a way that happens online and some
and a potential this also came from
working with um social club of like the
artists yeah not going in as themselves
like creating these avatars and pseudo
identities and sort of i guess like i
mean they were very young artists but
like losing
their egos i guess and like thinking
about like what it could mean to
create without like their past self and
their past ego and create a narrative
through a different character so yeah at
the back end we had like
a very kind of like social platform
where people could like write messages
to each other
share images um like there was a
screening room and things like that but
create a world and create a narrative
together and they yeah there was all
these different characters so this
really rich
organism this thing came together and
then um and then they decided to do this
yeah like this virtual world um at the
end of this kind of like intensive six
months that we had um together um and
yeah we visited different online worlds
like we visited like really old spaces
like second life and
um uh
you know did lots of practical workshops
as well like learning different digital
tools um
yeah but it was it was like really a
place to yeah to bring people together
and to think like
what can we do like outside of the kind
of like arts education
um
structure i guess as well that that
could kind of push things online yeah
and the exhibition was all of them like
developing like the subconscious worlds
of their avatars basically so like when
you go on the website each of the
artists has like
a card that you can flip over and then
enter into their unity world directly
and so they all like were just amazing
in terms of the scope of like what they
were able to learn and and the outcomes
that they were able to develop like we
had such an amazing goal yeah we're
incredible
i mean and it was just done through an
open call as well of graduating artists
and lots of them didn't well most of the
group didn't know each other there was a
couple that knew each other but
you know now it's great like they they
have this supportive network that
they've got together and they're all
great friends and we can see them you
know helping each other on their
different projects and
that's i think that's the
the
the greatest thing you know like to get
out of it that you know you can kind of
create this you know like well just kind
of like put seeds into starting like
something and then they you know they
built it and they run with it but you
know just plant a few seeds and then you
know it's really grown so
yeah and we're hoping to do it again in
the future um i actually wasn't
successful
in fun getting funding for it i just
found out that i couldn't get funding
but i think like the project also
probably needs to
adapt as well because it was very much a
response to what was happening at the
time and covered and was all online and
perhaps it needs to now
yeah
evolve again and um yeah probably like
camps in the forest in real life instead
of like camping out in second life
[Laughter]
camping on second life is cool we love
that here too um
and you know what a fabulous project you
know if you hear that audience members
and you want to support spur please get
in touch with them um because it's a
really fabulous program that is doing a
lot for young artists around the world
um and i'm deeply inspired by it we are
so out of time um i want to read really
quickly we got a comment from sammy
vealer sammy's the architect for the
exhibition in new york city um and you
know a just a fabulous fabulous person
um
and she writes in the ch she uh uh
oh one second i just lost it i just
dropped it
sammy wrote in the chat i we were
talking about you know the relationship
between queerness and animals under the
ocean and sami writes i've heard it
called pernicious anthropocentrism it's
challenging for humans to empathize with
non-human intelligences because we have
a habit of anthropomorphizing them in
the same way cis people try to empathize
with me as a trans person me being sammy
uh by trying to imagine what it was like
if they wanted to transition themselves
um and i think that's a that's an
interesting that's a that's a point for
thought for us to to leave on i think
you know reimagining our
anthropocentrism in a different way um
and you know not centering the human in
yeah yeah you know finding ways to get
out of ourselves somehow like how can we
find tools to do that yeah i'm very
interested in that
or how can we shapeshift or something
exactly exactly um
oh gosh we're still out of time we got
to move on uh it's all good thank you so
much thank you so much